Ability: Beast Boost Frequency: At-Will – Free Action Trigger: The user makes an opposing Pokemon or Trainer faint. Effect: The user gains 1 Combat Stage in its highest stat. If two stats are equal, the user chooses which stat is given the Combat Stage. For the remainder of the scene, only the chosen stat can receive Combat Stages from this ability. (Excludes HP and is unaffected by changes due to Combat Stages.)
Ability: Berserk Frequency: Static Effect: While Enraged, the user’s Special Attack is raised 3 Combat Stages. If the user stops suffering from Enraged, the user loses and Combat Stages from this ability.
Ability: Comatose Frequency: Static Effect: The user is always afflicted by Sleep status, and they cannot be awoken by any action or damage taken. The user can perform actions while asleep as if it were not asleep. If Burned, Poisoned, Badly Poisoned, or Paralyzed, it rolls 1d20 at the end of its turn. If the roll result is even, the user is cured of the status afflction.
Ability: Conflagrate Frequency: At-Will – Free Action Trigger: The user uses a Normal-type damaging move. Effect: The move is changed to Fire-type.
Ability: Corrosion Frequency: Static Effect: Steel-type Pokemon can be damaged by the user’s Poison type moves, and Steel and Poison types can be Poisoned and Badly Poisoned by the user.
Ability: Dancer Frequency: Scene x2 – Free Action Trigger: A Pokemon or Trainer uses a Dance move. Effect: The user copies the triggering Dance move immediately after the Pokemon or Trainer.
Ability: Dazzling Frequency: Static Effect: Priority and Interrupt moves cannot be used in a Burst 3 area around the user. 
Ability: Disguise Frequency: Scene – Free Action Trigger: The user is hit by a damaging attack. Effect: The user takes no damage from the attack. This ability cannot be used again until healed at a Pokemon Center or taking an hour to rest. 
Ability: Electric Surge Frequency: Scene – Swift Action Effect: The field becomes Electric Terrain for 5 rounds.
Ability: Emergency Exit Frequency: At-Will – Free Action Trigger: The user is brought to 50% Hit Points or lower. The user must have more than 50% Hit Points for this ability to Trigger. Effect: The user may choose to immediately return to its Pokeball. A new Pokemon can immediately be sent out.
Ability: Fairy Orbs Frequency: Scene – Standard Action Effect: The user creates 3 Fairy Orbs. Whenever the user is targeted by a foe within 6 meters, they may spend a Fairy Orb to use the Move Fairy Wind against that foe as a Free Action after the triggering Move is resolved.
Ability: Fluffy Frequency: Static Effect: The user resists damage from melee range physical attacks one stage further, but is now one stage weaker to Fire attacks.
Ability: Full Metal Body Frequency: Static Effect: The user’s Combat Stages may not be lowered by the effect of foes’ Features, Abilities, or Moves. Status Afflictions may still alter their Combat Stages. Defensive.
Ability: Galvanize Frequency: At-Will – Free Action Trigger: The user uses a Normal-type damaging move. Effect: The move is changed to be Electric-type.
Ability: Grassy Surge Frequency: Scene – Swift Action Effect: The field becomes Grassy Terrain for 5 rounds.
Ability: Innards Out Frequency: Static Trigger: The user takes massive damage. Effect: The user inflicts damage equal to half the damage taken to the source of the damage.
Ability: Liquid Voice Frequency: At-Will – Free Action Trigger: The user uses a damaging move with the Sonic keyword. Effect: The move is changed to be Water-type.
Ability: Long Reach Frequency: Static Effect: All of the user’s Melee range, 1 target moves now have a range of 4, 1 Target. Additionally, all moves that were previously ranged 1 target now have 2 further range.
Ability: Merciless Frequency: Static Effect: When the user attacks a target that is Poisoned, increase the critical range of the attack by 3. If they are Badly Poisoned, the critical range is instead increased by 6.
Ability: Misty Surge Frequency: Scene – Swift Action Effect: The field becomes Misty Terrain for 5 rounds.
Ability: Neuroforce Frequency: Static Effect: If this Pokemon uses a supereffective attack, increase that attacks DB by 2 during damage calculation.
Ability: Power Construct Frequency: Scene – Free Action Trigger:The users Hit Points are at 50% or lower. Effect: Keep a separate character sheet for Zygarde Complete Form. When this ability triggers, the user changes to Complete Form.
Ability: Power of Alchemy Frequency: Scene – Free Action Trigger: An Allied Pokemon has fainted Effect: Select one of the abilities the allied Pokemon has. The user replaces Power of Alchemy with the chosen ability for the remainder of the Scene.
Ability: Prism Armor Frequency: Static Effect: The user gains +10 Damage Reduction against Super-Effective damage. Defensive.
Ability: Psychic Surge Frequency: Scene – Swift Action Effect: The field becomes Psychic Terrain for 5 rounds.
Ability: Queenly Majesty Frequency: Static Effect: Priority and Interrupt moves cannot be used in a Burst 3 area around the user.
Ability: Receiver Frequency: Scene – Free Action Trigger: An Allied Pokemon has fainted. Effect: Select one of the abilities the allied Pokemon has. The user replaces Reciever with the chosen ability for the remainder of the Scene.
Ability: RKS System Frequency: Static Effect: The user changes its Primary type to the type of the Plate, Bracer, or Drive being held.
Ability: Schooling Frequency: At-Will – Free Action Trigger: The user falls below 25% Hit Points while in School Form Effect: Keep 2 character sheets for the user, one for Single form and one for School form. The user uses Single form while below level 20, and switches to School form once it reaches level 20. When this ability triggers, the user switches from School form to Single form. If the user goes back above 25% Hit Points, they may return to School Form.
Ability: Shadow Shield Frequency: Static Effect: While at full Hit Points, all damage taken by the user is resisted one step further. Defensive
Ability: Shields Down Frequency: Scene – Free Action Trigger: The user falls below 50% Hit Points. Effect: Keep 2 character sheets for the user, one for Meteor form, and one for Core form. The user is normally in Meteor form. When this ability triggers, the user switches to Core form.
Ability: Slush Rush Frequency: Static Effect: While in Hailing Weather or under 50% max Hit Points, the users Initiative is doubled. Bonus: The user is immune to Hit Point loss from Hail.
Ability: Soul Heart Frequency: At-Will – Free Action Trigger: A Pokemon faints within 10 meters of the user. Effect: The users Special Attack gains 1 Combat Stage.
Ability: Stakeout Frequency: At-Will – Free Action, Reaction Trigger: An opponent is sent into battle or moves within 10 meters of the user. For movement, the triggering opponent must have been outside the 10 meter range prior to moving. Effect: For the remainder of the round, if the user uses a 1 target attack on the triggering opponent, the moves Damage Base is increased by 2 for the attack.
Ability: Stamina Frequency: At-Will – Free Action Trigger: The user is hit by a damaging attack. Effect: After damage has been calculated, the user gains +1 Defense Combat Stage. Defensive.
Ability: Steam Cloud Frequency: Static Effect: The user resists all Water-type attacks 1 step further. Each time a Water-type attack hits the user, raise the user’s Evasion by 1.
Ability: Steel Cannons Frequency: At-Will – Swift Action Effect: Until the end of the round, the user may originate any ranged move they use from any square within 2 meters of itself.
Ability: Steelworker Frequency: Static Effect: Steel-type moves used by the user have their Damage Base increased by 2.
Ability: Surge Surfer Frequency: Static Effect: While on Electric Terrain, the users Initiative is doubled.
Ability: Tangling Hair Frequency: At-Will – Free Action Trigger: The user is hit by a melee ranged attack. Effect: The triggering opponent’s Speed is lowered by 1 Combat Stage
Ability: Toxic Relationship Frequency: Static Effect: Whenever the user poisons a target, the target also becomes infatuated.
Ability: Triage Frequency: Static Effect: The users moves with the Healing keyword gain the Priority keyword.
Ability: Water Bubble Frequency: Static Effect: The user is immune to the Burn condition, and resists Fire attacks one step further. Bonus: Water moves used by the user have their Damage Base increased by 2.
Ability: Water Compaction Frequency: Static Trigger: The user is hit by a Water-type attack. Effect: Raises Defense by 2 Combat Stages.
Ability: Wimp Out Frequency: Static Trigger: The user is brought to 50% Hit Points or lower. Effect: The user is immediately returned to it’s Pokeball. A new Pokemon can immediately be sent out.
